docs: Changelog for 1.0.0 (#593)
epiphany-platform/CommonDataLayer: CHANGELOG.md

# Common Data Layer Changelog

## 1.0.0

### Breaking changes
- Data Router expects `version` field in CDL Ingestion Message in format "MAJOR_VERSION.MINOR_VERSION"
- Changed ENV variables

### New components
- CDL Web Admin (GUI) - For management purposes only
- Edge Registry (ER) - Manages relationships between schemas (schema to schema) and objects (object to object)
    - ER is available in graphQL API
    - ER pushes notifications

> - Materializer - general (M-G) - Writes materialized data to the repository

Reviewer: Word `repository` may be misleading

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Materializer - general (M-G) - Writes materialized data to the materialization-database
```

- Materializer - ondemand (M-O) - Returns materialized data to the user (Request-Response)
- Object Builder (OB) - Creates materialized data based on first stage repositories
    - OB is available in graphQL API
    - OB supports empty filters for accessing all data
- Partial Update Engine (PUE) - Notifies OB when materialized view needs to be processed

### Changes to existing components
- Data Router and Query Router supports static routing allowing Schema-Registry-absent deployment

> - Query Service supports returning stream of data without allocating hughe amounts of memory

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Query Service supports returning stream of data without allocating huge amounts of memory
```

- Schema Registry now uses Postgres as a backend
- Data Router supports message batching

### General changes

> - E2E tests (E2E)

Reviewer 2: Completely internal, I don't think we should put it in a changelog.

- Added gRPC as an alternative communication method between services
- CDL supports basic materialization with filtering
- CDL loads configuration from configuration files
- CDL supports Open Telemetry for traces

### Major bugfixes
- It is now possible to switch to multi/single threaded behaviour in Data Router

### Documentation
- Added MdBook on Github Pages
- Added Feature List and descriptions
- Added tutorial for basic materialization
- Added documentation for configuration files and for ENV variables
- Formalized commit messages and tags
- Added information about CDL versioning

### Geneal fixes
- Query-multiple RPC method returns an error for Timeseries schema type
- Metrics port defaulted to invalid one

> - Build script fixes

Reviewer 2: Internal

- Consumer-based services will log an error and continue working on next message, no longer resulting in the crash loop

### RFCs
- Static routing
- CDL Ingestion API versioning
- CDL publishing deployment configurations
- Partial Materialization
- Edge Registry
- Alternative communication method to Kafka and RabbitMQ (gRPC)

### Known issues

> - Relationships in materialization may generate wrong set of data

Reviewer 2: Should we put it here? Officially relationships in materialization aren't supported yet.

Author: But still, the code is there, it's not under any feature flag, and someone may use it. So it's better to be safe than sorry by having "We know about it, don't bother us".

Author: I may rephrase it "Relationships in materialization are still WIP and may generate wrong set of data"
